## Bachelor Thesis Code Repository ##
This repository presents the code used in my bachelor thesis titled "Utilizing GLM-HMM Analysis of Behavioral Patterns to Identify Mental States in Mice Performing a Visual Perception Task".
The thesis was written under the supervision of Timo Stein, Umberto Olcese and with the support of Kengo Takahashi.

## Research ##
Two hypothesis were tested:
1. Distinct mental states in mice are present within a session  
   --> Distinct mental states were found within a session for all mice and all sessions analyzed.
3. Pupil dilations will correlate with the mice's mental states  
   --> The pupil pupil dilations did correlate but mixed relationships were found for each session.

## Workflow ##
The code processes data from both lick detectors (for behavioral data) and pupil videos (for pupil dilation) to model the transition probabilities of the mice’s behavioral states under the influence of the presented stimuli.
It currently follows a 3-step workflow where first the states are generated by the GLM-HMM, then are manually identified by a human based on the performance metrics exported and lastly plots and export data are re-generated based on the states identified.

## Continuation of Work ##
The thesis was written as part of an research internship.
Coding- and computing-wise this code is not ideal. It will be refactored, improved and expanded in the following repository: [GLM-HMM-Analysis](https://github.com/FlorianKrauseResearch/GLM-HMM-Analysis)
